Well, I do want to say, sir, it's a great personal pleasure.
Thank you.
I would liken it to my leading Ted Williams.
Yeah.
When I was a kid.
You're a coffee drinker.
I'm a coffee drinker, a lover of aviation, and spent three years on an aircraft carrier in the Western Pacific.
I've always known about you and your great triumphs.
I guess what really interests me is the perception, and a very valid and genuine perception of you as a modern hero, a hero for the 1980s.
I know this from the many stories I've read about you in this book, but it kind of embarrasses you a little better.
Yeah, you'd probably get some argument out of that from me.
But do you think that perhaps
I wonder if you could have been a hero in the 60s.
There was so much talk that there were no more American heroes, and all of a sudden we have one with Chuck.
Well, if I'm a hero today, I was a hero in the 60s, too.
Well, perception, though.
I mean, you think that your book is number one immediately.
Knocked off the Iacocca.
I'm going to suggest to Stu Applemore that they've got a presidential ticket there.
Iacocca and Yeager.
Sure.
Well, I don't think—I'd do the Ishi Delco commercials, and that would tickle me to bump him off being a Ford Weenie, so.
How do you feel about that?
Do you think that the times are light?
I think so.
It's just—I don't have that broad enough knowledge, Nick, to know whether—if I'd have published a book in the sixties, it would have done what it's doing today.
I personally, well, I would guess that it would not have, because the people today are much, much better educated than they were in the 60s, and the so-called, you know, anti-war demonstrators, draft card burners, and the Jane Fonders, and traitors like that, in my opinion, were very poorly educated, to choice or not, to the point where they
They blamed the military for Vietnam, but now people are suddenly realizing and said, hell, you know, guys that were fighting in Vietnam weren't over there because they wanted to be, because they were over there because their country asked them to go.
And the people today are well aware that, you know, military doesn't make foreign policy.
In fact, that's my analogy, that's what I see happening today, and that's the reason for the big
I would say not sympathy, but agreement with the guys who were in Vietnam.
They say, hey, you in Vietnam, you did a good job.
You weren't the cause of Vietnam.
You were fighting there because you were fighting for your country.
I think it goes beyond that, though.
I mean, I don't want to push this too far, but I mean, you're a hero.
You are a modern hero of the 1980s.
The great exploits, the great achievements triumphs sort of in the forties and the fifties and you're being recognized.
Isn't that kind of ironic that you're being recognized or not recognized but accepted now by the great people?
Well, I'm being accepted by a different kind of people.
In the fifties, forties, fifties, sixties and seventies I was still a hero to Air Force guys, you know pilots primarily.
Anybody in the Air Force.
Today, I'm probably, if I am a hero, I'm a hero to a housewife who has a son who she'd like to see do or have the attitude that I have.
How do you feel, we'll get out this here a little bit.
There's a space shuttle up there now.
There's a 58-year-old man on board.
Would you like to be up there?
If I could fly it, I would.
Do you think that's
them the cars?
It'd be a waste of money.
Train me to make one flight on a space shuttle and then, you know— Well, they sent him teachers.
It's a big difference flying it than riding in the back with a mission specialist barking in their beards, you know.
Do you think that this would be sufficiently challenging to you, or do you think it's pretty routine the way they've got it?
It's pretty routine now, meaning that I fly systems today in the F-20 that are as
It's not a space vehicle, but it's the same computer technology that's in the computer flight control system that's in the shuttle, but even more advanced.
You would like that aircraft, the F-20.
Yeah, well, it's an advanced aircraft.
It's a new airplane.
It's modern technology.
Isn't this the one that the Air Force won't buy?
Well, the Air Force has got a large amount of its money tied up in the logistics space for the F-16.
They can't afford to buy a new airplane right now.
So that's one that they'd love to have, the F-20.
But this is when it was entirely built and designed by private enterprise.
Yeah, there's no military money in it.
It's a beautiful thing to see how Northup built and how they handled, and it shook a lot of people up when Northup came to
With this unsolicited proposal to the Air Force, we'll sell you 300 and so many airplanes for a fixed price and guarantee the cost of the spares for the next 20 years.
Unprecedented, isn't it?
That's right.
And the one thing, even if they never sell an F-20, they have done their job.
What they've got, the cost of F-16s are all on the way down.
So it's embarrassing to GD and the Air Force.
I'll ask you a question about it.
There are several instances and experiences where you drew on a sixth sense in the plummeting of the X-1A, helping your buddy save that P-51 that was going to be the rest of the next day.
Tell me about the sixth sense.
Well, I don't think it's a sixth sense, Nick.
I think it is intimate knowledge about the systems in an airplane.
You have to go back, like in the beginning of the book, my dad raised me.
I was raised around, not only because my dad raised me did I know him again.
The vocational schools to us kids back in the, you know, the 30s, I spent lots of nights in garages with instructors teaching me how to take an engine apart, put it together, get it, repair it, and, you know,
repair a tractor.
I had fifty hours, as I recall, of the settling and arc welding in those locational schools because it was one of the things— That's kind of quicker than that.
Well, and when I'm in the cockpit with you and that X-ray is plummeting 51,000 feet in 51 seconds and all of a sudden there's something in there that says, hey, the stabilizing element is the leading edge.
That comes from experience.
Yeah, you remember I made a statement.
fun every airplane in the world.
It's part of your instruction.
You're taught that in test ball school.
And I'd run a lot of spin programs.
Spinning airplanes was second nature to me.
Same way I had—my pressure suit was inflated.
I had enough sense to know it.
I knew I was in trouble.
But the thing that worried me is I thought I'd lost the tail off the airplane.
I didn't have any way of getting out of it.
But there again, you just concede the fact and say,
That's the way it goes.
Apparently you, from time to time, listen to the tape.
Well, yeah.
What does that do when you hear that?
Why do you listen to the tape?
You know, the one thing that I hear in that tape is one word, hit.
I remember it reverted me back when I was in a semi-conscious state.
Hit was a word that we used for IT.
And I remember the question was asking me, did your suit inflate?
Yes, it did.
That word comes through loud and clear.
You say, and it means that I went back, you know, I wasn't thinking, I couldn't, didn't have enough sense to think.
Well, you clearly had enough sense.
that could have escaped during that.
I didn't have to think.
It was instinct, you know, because based on all experience I'd had up until then.
How about luck, luck and skill?
Tell me the difference between the two.
I mean, would you ascribe many of your great escapes to luck, or let's come down to what we call it skill?
Well, a lot of people say you make your own luck, and the phrase luck, you know, using that word when you describe
You know, coming out of an incident or a bad situation, there's a gray area between luck and skill.
And luck overlaps and skill overlaps.
And probably in my case, the overlapping is probably a little wider than in a lot of other people's lives.
But you can't arm luck out.
You're quite frank in the book.
You say you're terrified.
Yeah.
Anybody would be, but the point is, we're terrified in combat.
But you learn real quick that if you let that worry, it'll kill you quicker than a bullet would.
Is there a difference between terror and fear?
No.
You were terrified.
Nah, to me it's all one.
You're afraid of the outcome.
You may have fear of getting on a mic in front of a thousand people.
Somebody else may have terror, you know, getting, say, I'm going to take this car for 200 miles an hour.
And as you go through about 100 and 150, you begin to, you know, get scared.
Terror, like we use the word terror like, let's say, well, flying.
on an hour's mission is fifty-five minutes of pleasure for five minutes of stark terror on landing.
You could use that expression, meaning, Christ, what a horrible place to be.
No, there's no— Have you kept a log of how many hours— Oh, sure, the Air Force has, you form five flight records, tells exactly every airplane you ever flew when.
the total time, where you were.
So what are your hours now?
I run right now about eleven thousand six hundred hours, of which somewhere around ten and a half are in fighters.
That was the day I retired eleven years ago—or ten years ago.
And since then I've put in about, oh, close to five hundred hours in
in fighters and maybe about 4,000 hours in civilian airplanes.
You make a very interesting point that there's no such thing as a natural aviator.
Maybe you could explain a little bit.
I think people would say that Chuck Yeager is the most natural pilot who's ever lived.
Had I been a natural pilot, the day that I strapped my tail in an airplane for the first time, I could have flown it.
An airplane is a piece of machinery.
And you and I and Joe and all of us have—if you give us the same baseline of visual acuity, meaning the same eyes, the same coordination, and the same stamina, we, as we go through our flying experience, the guy that has the most experience is going to be the best.
Well, now, there's an interesting episode towards the end of the book.
You're preaching to the Pope here now.
Yeah.
But there's an interesting episode at the end of the book where you just did everything to this meek.
And this other guy was basically challenging you the same way that I... Yeah.
You know, he took up the meek and you waxed his teeth.
Yeah.
Was that fun?
Did you enjoy that?
Yeah, because he...
I have one advantage that that lieutenant colonel never had.
I lived and breathed dogfighting in World War II.
He had never been in World War II.
In fact, I doubt if he ever flew a prop airplane.
See, that's what I mean.
Formation flying, hell, half of my life has been on a wing in weather or something because I'm a fighter pilot.
You point out that that's the greatest experience, the greatest satisfaction is dogfighting.
Dog, well, combat is the ultimate.
Is that because your ass is on the line?
That's exactly right and that's why you're trained.
That's why you're paid.
That's why you wear a uniform, to fight.
I don't care where you are or what you're doing.
That's what they pay you for.
I'm sure that you get a lot of questions and you address it in the book.
and you're going to kill him.
He's out to get you, you're out to get him.
You're out close too.
Combat, man, if you don't get him, he's going to get you.
And there's a challenge there, isn't there?
Damn right there.
Kind of an incentive, you know, to do your best.
And don't screw up.
That may be your last one.
Are you superstitious at all?
No.
No, I walk under the ladders.
You know, to me, that's the one thing, I suppose, odds.
That's a good example.
You say, all right, if I draw—if I have a deck of cards and I draw eleven black ones, my chances of drawing a red one, man, are really great.
I don't look that way.
Every one's a new shot.
That's the reason I disagreed with—
The Air Force, when they said, you know, I crashed, I had the accident in the XF-92, the X-1A, Tumble, you know, doing research flying, and they said, there's a lot of the average going to get to one of these.
I've got just a good chance.
Next flight, next airplane, I've got an even chance.
Better chance, because you've got that much more experience.
That's right.
And that's one thing, Nick, it comes up.
I was on a TV show this morning with old Buzz, what's that black guy?
He's really a fun guy to come around with.
That brings up one thing.
Many people ask me, how do you consider your education?
You never had a degree.
When I came back to the war, the Air Force had, you know, programs they would have sent me to college for two years, got a degree.
And as time went on, I began to realize that suppose I had going to college, let's see, after the X-1, between the X-1 and the X-1A, spent two years in school, not flying.
Okay, then I came back and got the X-1 program.
Do I think I would have lived through the X-1?
I don't think I would have.
Because the deterioration of my flying skills and experience over that period of time, there was times like in the NF-104, when I think I really cut it close to a very fine edge.
And had I had maybe one hour less experience flying,
I would have gotten killed.
What did that one always give you?
Knowledge and experience.
Experience.
Well, there's no way or sense.
It gave me experience.
It gave me the capability and also the knowledge and pressure suits and the systems that I was operating that gave me a subconscious capability to do the right thing.
It's...
things.
I guess aircraft is important to have not only a total amount of hours— Yeah, but tight.
Isn't that tight?
You love that airplane.
Right.
It's the greatest property.
I was flying one three days ago in Oshkosh.
Isn't that right?
You should have seen Good Morning America this morning.
Oh, shit.
You were on this one?
Six-minute segment.
And the thing is, I'm flying a Mustang at Oshkosh, and
And I don't know, I was on David Hartman's show in June, and he made me promise he might give him a ride in a Mustang.
This is how I closed out the show this morning.
It really worked good.
I'm sitting up in the cockpit of this Mustang.
I said, well, there you have it.
Oshkosh, the greatest air show in the world.
I've been showing airplanes and aerobatics and ultra lights and everything.
And David, oh, by the way, David, you asked me to take you for a flight in the Mustang when I was on your show the last time.
Well...
I'm here at Oshkosh and I got a Mustang and you ain't here so I'm going flying.
I get in the airplane, start the engine, and I lay down and I said, you probably got sick anyway.
Was that on to you?
Yeah, just exactly the way I'm telling you.
It really turned out good.
God damn Hartman, he's going to kill me.
You still got a kick out of it.
Oh yeah, and I thought to myself, how lucky can you get?
Setting up there, I was up with six other P-51 pilots.
Man, we're in a rat race, dog fight, having a ball.
And I thought to myself, how lucky can you get, man, setting up here in a 51 that you were fighting with 42 years ago and still enjoy flying, still able to enjoy flying.
You've got to get behind the guy, you've got to outmaneuver him, outturn him, you've got to know your airplane better, you've got to know the tricks of the trade.
Man, cut him off, do everything you can to bleed every— It's understood when one guy is one—I mean, when we're playing now, obviously when you win in combat, you win.
That's pretty evident, but when you're up there flying, if you get— Oh, get behind the guy, get a lead on him.
See, because most of the guys, just like that lieutenant colonel in the F-86, it's something, it's experience that we got in training in P-39s.
Man, the minute you broke ground, you better watch your ass, because some mother's sitting up there waiting on you.
Always, because that's the way combat is.
And the guy you don't see is the guy that nails you.
And...
Man, the minute you break ground, you wrap that thing around, you start watching because you know somebody's coming at you.
If you see him coming, you break into him as you go by, then you get in a damn rat racing car.
Some guys will, you know, it's a standoff.
You're like Bob Hoover in the old days.
Let me take down a couple notes here.
Yeah.
I like the fact that you're using your hands here to— Well, a firefighter can't talk that.
I love his hands.
Well, of course, you can't talk about getting on a guy's tail, you know, and pulling the lead on him.
What do you mean, getting in front of him?
Hello, Dan.
You're talking about, you know, it's an old cliche that...
No way, man.
That's the reason that I laugh my head off when I see a newspaper report of a guy who's in an airplane and the engine quits or is on fire and he turns it away and hits the ground to miss the school bullshit.
One thought in that guy's mind is survival.
He never says nothing.
Let's read it.
You sit here.
I can't talk to you.
If a guy's asking you, where are you?
And that's the thing, see?
And that's really, very few, when a guy, if you've got two guys in an airplane, one of them got Diary of the Mountain, you'd hear a few words out of them.
And you'd be happy to shut them up, too.
Yeah, sure.
To go back to terror, I think it's an important distinction between terror and panic.
You can be terrified and not be panic.
Panic and being terrified is two different things.
Number one, you've got to be in a situation when you're panicked.
You know, and that's, here again, I don't know of any reason to ever panic in an airplane.
In fact, panic will kill you about as quick as anything else because it makes you do the wrong thing.
What did you say?
You can't think of a single reason?
No.
What's the worst scenario in an airplane?
I don't know.
Dead in the water.
We use the expression, he's dead in the water.
I can't think of anything worse than being dead and being in the water.
You're sinking.
Can you think of anything else you'd have wanted to do besides flying?
Well, I like to hunt.
I like to fish.
Well, I mean professionally.
For a living.
You really didn't even do this for a living.
No, no way.
When you were flying the X-1, you were making two hundred and some odd bucks a month.
And the other guys were getting, what bonuses for everybody?
What I've noticed though, Nick, and what I've noticed though is, you know, being an author, it's a piece of credit.
You write a book, number one on the best.
I'd probably take that up.
That must be very satisfying, though.
Did you think this was going to hit number one?
You see me laughing, don't you?
Well, I do.
No, I had no idea.
And to put it bluntly, I think it's gotten completely out of hand.
Oh, come on now.
Well, no, that's the way I look at it.
By the way, it goes back to how I started.
You probably didn't realize that you are an American hero.
That's right, and I still don't.
The same way at the book, I was surprised when I read the book how good it turned out because Leo did a tremendous job.
He worked mainly off the Air Force tapes, is that right?
Yeah, but we had the manuscript.
We didn't have a tape.
We just had the manuscript.
And I'll say one thing.
Leo really, he's not a pilot, didn't know anything about flying, but he really learned that manuscript.
Then he began to talk to me from his knowledge of it and expanding certain areas.
And then, of course, he knew how I'd talk.
He had a word processor.
It's all computer.
And when he ended up with that first paragraph and I read it, I couldn't believe it.
Well, that's a great— Yeah, and he—it was his idea to put third people in it, because you can't be a smartass and say, man, I'm the world's greatest.
There's nothing wrong with somebody else standing there.
Well, how do you feel about that, though?
The world's greatest.
I think that that can be said without fear of— The thing is, like, I'll be the first one to admit that
Yeah, I've made mistakes in my life in airplanes, but I learned from them.
And you walked away from them.
Yeah.
That's number one.
Yeah, that's the main thing.
And secondly, it's that a lot of those guys were better than I was, except they didn't live.
They weren't better than you were.
You don't believe that, really?
Well, yeah, at certain times there were guys that were better at doing things than I was.
Oh, Jim Fitzgerald, that mother could land an airplane
a lot better than I could.
I mean he was good.
He couldn't do some other things as good as I could, but I in turn couldn't land an airplane as good as he could.
Have you ever been shot off an aircraft carrier?
Yeah.
I've landed on aircraft carriers.
No, to me, I've landed on carriers.
I've been shot off of them.
It's no different than a lot of other stuff.
You see, I make one statement when guys begin to admire Air Force pilots and Navy pilots flying F-18s and F-16s and F-15s.
I said, and that statement is that Uncle Sam doesn't buy a piece of equipment that the average guy can't operate, period.
It's very hard to—they can't operate.
But how about operating in a superior— An average guy can't.
Of course, he's got to have training in it, obviously, but he's an average guy.
Otherwise Uncle Sam wouldn't buy it or would be loose.
Well, that's right.
Because we do have missions to accomplish, yeah.
I guess you have mixed feelings about that.
Well, it's not the mixed feelings.
Most people, after they read Tom's book, say some of the right stuff.
That's what it takes to fly.
You know, that's what it takes to be a success in an airplane.
Well, I get a little annoyed.
Like, I've had people say, my son, like, when you sign my book to my son, he's flying F-15s, and say, John, you have the right stuff, Will.
I see.
What I say is, dear John, fly safe.
Well, that's a very important point, I think, is that people confuse the fact that you are willing to go to the absolute outer limits.
They confuse that with recklessness.
Yeah.
And I think maybe you could comment on that.
When you were knowingly going to these absolute outer limits,
doing it, because that was my job.
But you also knew that you, you also had confidence that you would be in the equipment.
When I, you know when I fly an airplane, unless we got something, a fallout from exceeding the red line, I never exceed a red line on an airplane, because I know the end result.
Just like when old Dab and I were doing the time to climb in the, in the Piper Shine 400, we exceeded the red line, but we knew, we know that those engines are
designed to operate at that region for a short period of time, not forever, because, man, it's going to start flying apart on you pretty soon.
And you do that in the book in one case, too, where you were flying with another aircraft.
Yeah, I wanted to make a point.
I knew that I could run the thing up the tailpipe temperature to about 715 instead of 700 with a redlining.
I knew I could do it for an hour or two, but then we're going to start changing turbine blades and tailpipes.
That's a point.
You don't elect anybody to crash a plane.
Yeah, but I also know that there isn't anything that you can do with an airplane if somebody hasn't already done it, including flying it into the ground.
I mean, half the people won't even turn around and look at the smoking hole, but that's one thing.
You don't go shine your ass on an airplane because you're not impressing anybody.
It's already been done.
You say you're not superstitious, but you never use the word crash.
Well, if I write, if I'm writing up a report on one of my pilots, you know, he'd crash, you know, crash report.
We use that word in here, crash report, but you never, guys don't use that expression.
It's because of the more nonchalant statements.
But I think it's just something that we don't do anyway.
It's obvious, never crash.
You only get one chance.
You get the impression that, as much as you love these guys that you flew with and fought with, or did test flying with, when the guy screwed up and did all go in or buy the farm or whatever, you got mad.
You almost felt something approaching contempt.
It's like I said in my book, and that's the reason you never get too close to it, guys.
Even all during our training, you know, when you're in a flying fighter.
Our P-39s in the old days, we lost a lot of guys in training.
And then you got pretty close to two or three of the better guys.
They didn't bust their ass in combat.
They got killed in combat.
They didn't bust their ass in training.
Because they were good enough.
And then you say, well, there's a great guy.
And you start buddying around with them.
You hunt, chase women with them.
Have a good time.
Get drunk.
Then you go to combat, man, the guy gets blown out of the sky, and he says, you know, you hate that.
And then, in order to become calloused, then you don't get close to guys, so when they do get killed, and then to actually make yourself feel better that the guy, you know, is dead, you get mad at him.
That's right.
Well, it's a defensive mechanism as much as the other thing.
It's a defensive mechanism.
It's like, you know, hell, betting on the opposite team when you're playing football.
You feel bad for losing, but you feel a little better because you want some money.
What of all the many achievements were you said as your product?
The X one, probably.
Because that was truly— At that time, I didn't—I really didn't realize that, but that meant an awful lot.
See, we were hamstrung by a barrier, and we couldn't do a damn thing until we—
got in an airplane.
I also am smart enough to realize if I hadn't done it, somebody else would have.
There were a lot of guys back there.
Well, yeah.
Very eager to sit in there.
Yeah, but they weren't there.
That was kind of a ballsy thing, though, for the Air Force to take over that program.
Damn right.
And I'm glad you caught that, because that was some—a lot of very senior officers watched old General Boyd, or then Colonel Boyd's
It wasn't only Colonel Boyd who was instrumental in getting that X-1.
It was the whole engineering division of the Air Force, two-star generals.
What they began to notice, who's flying jet airplanes?
The Air Force is not the civilians.
Hell, our test pilots are head and shoulders above the best of civilian test pilots now.
See, those civilian test pilots didn't fly into war.
And so when I came back, and Bob Hoover, you know, the captain, the second and the first lieutenant, he said, see, I'm sitting there, the contractor's pilot sat in that plant for four years and flew, you know, B-24s or P-51s or something like that.
We came back then—
Then we were flying all of the new German airplanes, the Jap airplanes, and suddenly, by the spring of 1947, they realized, hey, man, those guys in flight tests are shit hot.
The Sierra Hotel.
That's what I told Stu when he got there.
He told me he wanted to use Chuck Yeager.
I said, Sierra Hotel.
He said, what the hell does that mean?
I said, U.S.
General Yeager.
Yeah, right.
Well, what I'm getting at is suddenly the Air Force began to realize that, hey,
man, why are we letting these civilians do this?
You know, it's a lot of money.
It was costing—and it was Air Force money.
That bonus money comes right out of our pocket.
That is so very political, too.
I mean, I'm sure that there were a lot of people who maybe wanted to see you guys fail.
Well, there were.
Man, like in my book, I point out that I've had guys, you know, civilian test pilots just
really blow their stack at me for—if I go fly their airplane, if I fly it on a missions crust, I'll spin the goddamn thing, do everything to evaluate the airplane, and then you come down and I've wiped out about three bonus flights for them, you know?
One question—it's not in the book and I suspect it's probably—you don't want to say this on the tape or something—but I'm wondering why this general—I can't remember his name—had it in for you when we were in Vietnam?
Professional jealousy.
See, it's not me personally.
He's just a jerk.
He stood in your way.
He would not allow you to go.
Go to Phan Rang in Vietnam and be the wing commander.
Well, so what?
Just like old General Davis told me.
He said, it's not you personally.
It's just that he's, you know, he's a commander of 7th Air Force, and he says he picks his own wing commander.
Christ, he wouldn't take you if you were going.
You're the best pilot in the Air Force.
That won't make any difference to him.
You see,
The point is, and I've noticed this amongst some generals, most officers, when they make general, don't change.
There's a few who do change.
And they change because they made general.
They think, well, I'm a four-star.
I have to do it.
I have to be a prick.
Well, prick got ahead.
He wouldn't even make it a prick.
Your prick is verbatim.
Don't worry about it.
You know, I've gotten about twenty letters from guys that I can write on, man.
That was really great.
That son of a bitch, I hated you and all this.
Another thing that generated the most mail that I've gotten from an interview was in the Newsweek magazine.
You know, I talked about the majority of, in talking about Vietnam veterans playing on the sympathy of the public,
and coming home and say, I'm a—man, I've got to smoke marijuana because I fought in Vietnam.
That's baloney.
And I said in that interview, I said, the majority of the guys who came home from Vietnam with a dope problem took it there with them.
No question about it.
And boy, I've gotten a hundred and some letters.
When I first came back— Right on.
That's exactly the way it went.
I did two cruises in the Gulf.
jerks in the first place.
I mean they were doing this back home.
But when I get back and I get into the newspaper business, I did some stories on guys who were at the vet hospitals, purportedly breaking the habit that they acquired over there.
I mean it was one kid in particular who was a liar.
I'm sure he was a liar before he went in.
He was a thief.
I'm sure he was a thief before he went in.
Two weeks, no, two months later you get out and you get into a shootout with the state police and they blow him away.
You're telling me that Vietnam did this to him?
He was a thief, he was an armed robber, he was a drug addict.
These are personal qualities.
Just like you say, people don't change.
They don't change that much.
I mean, you're essentially the same person you were.
You're probably a little wiser than you were 40 years ago, but I'm sure you'd still talk into a P-51 and go dogfight right now for the opportunity to present itself.
You're a career Air Force officer, you're a general officer, and yet you show a marked disdain for Mickey Mouse and chicken shit type regulations.
Well, and it got you in some trouble a couple times.
Yeah, but hell, it got me in trouble cause I exceeded.
I wasn't careful.
I didn't cover my ass.
No, that's where you've got to— Do you get angry with ridiculous rules?
No, I don't get angry.
What I do, regulations are written as a guideline, and God damn it, that's the way I look at them.
And if I'm a wing commander, I also am tolerant if I go down and ask some crew chief, hey, why are you doing it this way?
The God damn tech order says to do it this way.
And if he can show me that it's better to do it this way, I'll go along.
If he can't, I say, bullshit, you go back and do it the way—
because, God damn it, that's the best way.
Yeah, but there's a couple incidents in there where you're pulling some pins out of things.
Well, you know, those guys that put those God damn big pins, you can't fly an airplane with a fucking pin sticking through your finger and fight with it.
But see, they never fought.
They never flew a fighter and fought with it.
Now, you never get into the space program.
I didn't have a college degree.
It's that simple.
Because it wasn't—I had much better deals.
You know, I had much—I was having much more fun flying research airplanes to running that.
I mean, as you point out, the monkeys went up first.
They weren't even going to give these guys a window.
The original savage astronauts didn't do any research, period.
The vehicle research was done by remote control, and the physiological research was done by goddamn monkeys.
And then when they strapped old Shepard in it, mother of the showman,
What the hell were they learning from Shepard?
Nothing.
It must have been kind of aggravating to see all these guys get these Life magazine contracts and all the edulants.
Yeah, but it pissed me off highly.
And I said so too, and I still say so.
Because what you do—and I explain in the book are the kids that I was training in the astronaut school who were being taken to NASA at Houston and interviewed
when they came back and I'd talk to them, I said, hey what's it look like?
I said, god damn, I wonder what our cut of this time of life got.
I said, hey, it's ruined.
You don't have much, I was interested to say, you don't have a very high regard for Neil Armstrong.
I don't think.
I watched Neil Armstrong work on the X-15.
He's a wonderful engineer.
I always thought that when
But Armstrong always gets credit for that, doesn't he?
No, he really doesn't.
Another thing, if you do a little research on the moon landing, you'll see that Neil Armstrong was within about two and a half seconds of being brought back into lunar orbit.
Really?
Yes, sir.
His fuel was that close.
He was flubbing around down on the surface of the moon.
There's nothing wrong with Neil Armstrong.
He did a good job.
And I don't mean to imply that I get the sense out of it, but you judge him as a professional.
That's right.
That costs him in flying.
I judge people as pilots, not engineers.
General, I think I've used up my 45 minutes.
You know, I've got two books here.
One that I'd like you to sign for me and one for my father, who thinks it's bad.
Really?
Yeah, yeah.
He's still kicking.
No, he's kicking good.
His name is John.
What did you do for a living?
You showed you have very great respect for the women pilots that you've done.
Pancho and Jackie Cosa and a lot of gals, especially with
The WASP, during the war, I never met any because we were always in combat, you know, and they weren't allowed to be in it there, but they sure smoked around the United States a lot.
I mean, the Earhart is probably the worst woman pilot who ever went.
You're right.
I mean, the Earhart never flew many different kinds of airplanes.
Just like today, this gal, Brooke Nat, shit.
I don't even know this name.
Where is she supposed to be?
Well,
She did a flight across the country, and she was like two states.
Her navigation was so bad.
She was in Kansas and thought she was in—have you ever heard about an unbelievable situation?
Well, the reason I admire Jackie, you see, and there again, it's a matter of experience.
She had a world of experience on a lot of airplanes.
She'd run these 100-kilometer course records, a 2.2 Mach and a 104, single cockpit 104, and do a beautiful job.
She still had the best teacher going, though.
A lot of people gave you some flack on that, that you kind of let her around the course.
There's no way.
I couldn't even catch her for Christy.
She was flying a 2.2 and I was flying a Mach 2 airplane.
What else can I ask you?
You'd probably like a little time for yourself here before the next day I can sit around.
Great stuff.
Are there any other frontiers in aviation that you think you'd like to— No, there's not an awful lot of milestones left to do.
You know, I was at the right time, props, and the jets, and the rockets, and breaking the sound barrier on out.
You know, we realized we'd never been above about .8 mark, and that's the whole thing.
It all happened in about 10, 15 years.
And the kind of dogfighting you did, that's going forever.
Now you've got two guys up there, one guy always working on— I'll tell you, though,
The days of energy management dogfighting and missiles, like I fly the F-20 a lot.
I also fly F-18s, F-16s, F-15s.
And what we're developing now is a snap-up chute system where a guy coming in on you, man, you can go through about 55 degrees angle of attack and these real fast missiles that we've got are developing, man, you zap him and get out because if you hang around you're going to get killed.
Is there dogfighting today?
Is it dogfighting?
It's only called that— Are you technicians executing weapons systems?
It's called tactical maneuvers, you know.
Dogfighting today is—it's still called that, but it really isn't.
They're not even heat-seeking missiles right now, right?
You don't have to get behind the guy to get them.
No, it'll—anything it'll track on.
That was a valid escape, though, in the early days of Sideliners, wasn't it?
Well, he had her, like the Israel pilots, kick out flares.
But the point is also, most all sidewinders, like you couldn't fire a sidewinder if you were pulling more than two Gs because you'd exceed the sidewinder's capability to maneuver.
Same way if a sidewinder's tracking you, if you pull more than about five Gs, he couldn't stay with you.
But these new missiles are extremely maneuverable, and he's nowhere getting away from.
Reliable.
And I never thought I'd
live to see the day when I say that a goddamn gun is surplus weight today in a new airplane.
They don't have them, do they?
Yeah, they got them.
In fact, they're insisting on putting them in, but goddammit, you fool around with a gun, you're going to get killed real quick with a missile.
You mentioned there was a guy who actually shot himself down.
Well, sure, Mach 2.
You know, bullet slows up below Mach 1 after.
Well, who would do that?
Well, all it is is pull an object, and he flew in these bullets.